# July 28, 2025 - Daily Drill

## 🎯 Daily Goals

- [x] Review Anki Deck
- [x] Lumosity training
- [x] Leetcode
- [x] Developing laplace
- [x] Langchain Learning

## 📝 What I learned:

### [898. Bitwise ORs of Subarrays](https://leetcode.com/problems/bitwise-ors-of-subarrays/description/?envType=daily-question&envId=2025-07-31)

#### Thinking Process

It is easy to come up with a naive solution where we just check all subarrays and its bitwise or result and put them in a set. This would take O(n^2^) time. Since the input size is 5 * 10e4 this is not viable. Let's think incrementally. What if we know the solution of unique results of the previous arrays? With a new element coming in, we are only interested in the subarrays that ends with the new element. Denote the new element's index as `k`. To calculate the distinct bit wise ors of subarray ending in `k`, the best way is to keep track of the results of previous subarrays that ends in `k - 1`. Then we can just `|` with each of them and append `k` to it. This seems to be a linear time operation for each of the new element. However, if you take a closer look at the prompt you, would find that the `arr[i]` is bounded by `[0, 10^9^]` which has at most 32 bits. The bitwise ors we keep track of is incremental, thus we can have at most 32 elements in the frontier set. 

#### Implementation

```python

def bitwiseOperation(nums):
    frontier = set({0})
    result = set()
    for num in nums:
        frontier = {num | x for x in frontier} | {num}
        result |= frontier
    return len(result)
```

#### Complexity Analysis

Let the longest bit length of the element be `m`. And assume there is `n` elements in the array

- **Time Complexity: O(nlog(m))**
- **Space Complexity: O(nm)**

As we mentioned above, we would insert each element into set for `n` times. Each operation would take `log(m)` time. Thus O(nlog(m)) for time complexity. For space, assume for the worst case, each frontier set is different. The there would be n * m elements in stored in the result



## 🚀 Resources that Requires Further Study

- [Gemini 2 Deepthinking](https://blog.google/products/gemini/gemini-2-5-deep-think/) 
