# July 30, 2025 - Daily Drill

## 🎯 Daily Goals

- [x] Review Anki Deck
- [x] Lumosity training
- [x] Leetcode
- [x] Developing laplace
- [x] Langchain Learning

## 📝 What I learned:

### [416. Partition Equal Subset Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/partition-equal-subset-sum/description/)

#### Thinking Process

This is a classic dynamic programming problem. The brutal force solution requires you to iterate through all possible subsets and cacluate their sum. This takes O(2^n^) time. Instead we can think from another perspective: what we can form using the elements from the array. If we only look at one element `k`, the answer would be `0` and `k`. And we can then introduce another new element `m`, The subset sum we can form becomes `0`, `k`, `m`, `k + m`. We can see that from this process, we can build a possible subset sum array within just O(n^2^) time. Then we can easily check if the `sum_of_all_element // 2` exists in the array. Using bit operation we can further improve the time complexity. The idea is as follows. If a sum `s` can be formed using all exists elements, we create a variable `bit_set` and mark `s`th bit to 1. When a new number `n` is introduced, we  can simply execute the operation `bit_set |= bit_set << n`. To check if a sum is possible we can do `bit_set >> s & 1 == 1`. 

#### Complexity Analysis

Given that we have `n` elements in the array.

- **Time Complexity: O(n)**
- **Space Complexity: O(1)**

#### Key Takeaways

- Use bit operation to reduce time complexity

## 🚀 Resources that Requires Further Study

- [AI Coding Productivity](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.09089)

This is an interesting research on the AI coding productivity. 16 experienced open-source developer (each with 5 or more years of experience) are selected to complete a series of tasks with/without the helper of AI code editor. The productivity increase with AI coder is predicted to be around 24%. Nonetheless, the result is quite surprising. The group of developer with AI coder actually get their productivity decreased by 19%. This might be caused by the facts that AI is not quite good at handling complex codebase and prompt and context engineering are also time consuming.


